
# Introduction
Hello, my name is Austin Donaubauer. I am an aspiring software engineer and am excited to share my journey with you all. 
My journey started way back in 2013 after graduating from Watertown High School in Wisconsin, I decided to pursue an associate degree in Mobile Application Development with emphasis in Android Development at Madison Area Technical College. Growing up I was around a lot of technology whether that be a personal computer or laptop, or even video game systems like a PlayStation 2 or a game boy advanced, and this fueled my curiosity in learning about programming. I took some basic programming courses in High School and decided mobile applications would be a cool thing to learn about.

It was an interesting journey as it did take a few years to complete the program. I graduated in 2017 with my degree, but unfortunately, I was not able to find a position in this field. Fast forward a few years to 2019 and I found a job in a call center for the company Pitney Bowes. This was my first opportunity to be in the IT industry, and I could hopefully launch my career. Over the last few years, I remained at Pitney Bowes and was promoted to a tier 3 support agent. I learned a lot about customer service and how software solves problems for them as I worked with customers to resolve issues and questions. I have been able to work closely with the product analysts and software engineers who accepted escalations from me on behalf of the customer when something wasn't resolvable by me. 

In June 2023, I decided to use the tuition assistance offered by Pitney Bowes and research college programs in the IT field. I decided that online schooling was going to be a good option for me so that I could continue to work normally and then work on school after work without missing time for in person classes. I found Southern New Hampshire University's Bachelor of Science in Computer Science with emphasis in software engineering to be a good fit for me. My ambition has continued to grow, and I want to be a professional software engineer. I learned a lot throughout the program and the main idea I learned is that there are several other responsibilities of a software engineer other than coding. It is important to understand that software engineers can be well rounded team members, where they can be a project leader, developer, tester, or analyst. I am looking for the right opportunity to begin my career as an IT professional.

# CS499 Capstone Class Overview
The capstone class is the end of the Bachelor of Science - Computer Science degree program and the culmination of my learning journey in it. 
The importance of this class is to become prepared to enter the real-world workforce as an IT professional. This began with developing the plan for the course, developing a plan in line with the course areas and outcomes.

## Course Areas

| Software Engineering and Design |
| Algorithms and Structures |
| Databases |

## Course Outcomes

| 1.	Employ strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision-making in the field of computer science |
| 2.	Design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts. |
| 3.	Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices. |
| 4.	Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals. |
| 5.	Develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources. |

These course areas and outcomes are met by creating three enhancements to a previous project or projects created throughout the program. The student develops a plan and then their professor approves the plan. It is a big change for many students because in the previous courses of the program have the course content outlined already and the student needs to work through the content. This capstone class is the opposite and requires the student to plan the content of the course and then develop and document it.

# My enhancement plan
For the first enhancement, I plan to use my previous experience and knowledge of mobile app development to complete this area. I had developed a simple android application in the previous course CS360 Mobile Architecture and Programming. The app was a simple android app, and my plan was to expand on it and redevelop it using the Flutter Framework so that I could develop the app for other platforms. This demonstrates my skills and abilities in programming and utilizing an industry standard tool like the Flutter Framework. This plan also completes a few of the course outcomes like demonstrating that industry standard tool and designing and developing professional quality oral written and visual communications.

For the second enhancement, I plan to also use the mobile app artifact because I thought I could enhance it again in a different way. The inventory app utilizes the item database to display the items to a user, but a user is not able to search, sort, or filter these items in any way. I could complete the Algorithms and Structures area by adding the search, sorting, and filtering features to my app. This would also complete the outcome of using computing solutions to solve a problem with algorithmic principles. The algorithmic principles would be used for searching and sorting items in the app.

For the third enhancement, I plan to update the database used in the Inventory app. I will use the same artifact because it was developed initially using a SQLite local database. I saw this as a great opportunity to update the app to use the cloud-based database Firebase and enhance the app this way. Firebase is an industry standard and has more capabilities than the local SQLite database. This enhancement shows off my knowledge of databases and data structures. It completes course outcome for utilizing industry standard tool and also keeps security in mind to complete that outcome. 

All three of these enhancements also fulfill outcome one to create collaboration in the project. I improved my comments and documentation of the project throughout the development and using GitHub allows myself and others to work on the project.

# Enhancement One Details and Reflection
The artifact I selected after reviewing several projects across my educational journey was the Inventory Warehouse app which I developed in the CS360 Mobile Architecture and Programming course at Southern New Hampshire University. The app was a simple android app that allows the user to register an account, login with that account, then view inventory items, edit or delete those items, add items to a SQLite database, and it included a push notification to alert users to low quantity items. I chose this artifact due to my history and knowledge of mobile applications from my associate degree program that I completed. I am most confident in my skills and abilities in this area of computer science and felt most confident in showing this project and the enhancement of it in my ePortolio. Since the original artifact was written in java and xml, the first enhancement I planned is to use the Flutter framework and redevelop the artifact in dart language. This shows my skills in mobile application development and understanding how to utilize the Flutter framework to create a cross-platform app that can be run on both android and iOS.

Flutter is an industry standard tool that I hope to use more in both my continuing education and in a professional setting. I made minor changes from the original project throughout development of this enhancement, such as changes to the home screen buttons and bottom navigation buttons. I also improved the UI of the inventory screen to display the items a bit differently. Lastly, I improved the validation of both the add item screen and the user registration forms and added hashing to the password, so the raw password is no longer saved in the database. 

In this enhancement, I completed the planned outcome about designing and developing a solution to solve a problem, as now with the redevelopment of the app in Flutter, it has become a cross-platform app that can run on both android and iOS. Another outcome completed is the security outcome, since I was able to implement better form validation and hashing the password. Another outcome it covers is the use of an industry standard tool like Flutter. I enjoyed the process of revisiting the original artifact and was able to work through each element to implement them in Flutter. I made small changes compared to the original which I feel makes the new app more secure such as hashing the password instead of saving the raw password.

Dart is the coding language used to develop in the Flutter framework, so I reviewed a lot of the documentation for the different libraries to learn how to develop my app. In enhancement two and enhancement three, I will be working with this same artifact to build off of this first enhancement. This will give me more opportunities to continue using Flutter and get more experience with it.

Link to GitHub repository - [EnhancementOneRepository](https://github.com/Packers13195/CS360-Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming)

# Enhancement Two Details and Reflection
Using the Inventory Warehouse app artifact from the CS360 Mobile Architecture and Programming course for this second enhancement is what I wanted to do. I built from the redeveloped Flutter app from enhancement one and focused on developing in the course area algorithms and structures. This area could be enhanced in the inventory app for the inventory item screen. I developed a search item by name, filtering options, and sorting options. To create these features, I got the data from the database and used the data structure of list.

To search for an item the app queries the SQLite database with the string entered in the search field once the user clicks the search button. The results of the query are returned as a list to be displayed on the screen to the user. Similarly, for the filtering the app will also query the database to find items with quantities greater than 5 and items with quantities less than or equal to 5. Lastly, for the sorting feature the app uses the list structures sort method to sort the items. The sort method is part of the flutter library, and it compares the objects to determine the order of the list and return it. The sorting function adjusts the list to ascending or descending order by item name. The sorting can also be done for item quantity from low to high and high to low. 

These features of search, sort, and filter fulfill a few outcomes. One outcome it completes is outcome three - Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices. This is completed with the user of the sort and compareTo methods to process the data. Another outcome it fulfills is outcome four - Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals. I utilize flutter and sqlite tools to implement the search, sort, and filter options which provide these basic features to the user. The user can easily adjust the inventory to show what they would like to see whether that be a specific item with the search criteria, or with options to filter out items that do not fit the filter criteria, or lastly to reorder items to see items by a-z or z-a order, or even by low to high and high to low quantities. I also completed outcomes one with the use of Git and Github to upload my project to the repository to make it available for collaboration, and outcome two with improved documentation within my code files to deliver professional oral, written, and visual communications.

Link to GitHub repository - [EnhancementTwoRepository](https://github.com/Packers13195/CS360-Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming)

# Enhancement Three Details and Reflection
The third enhancement covers the database course area, and I decided that refactoring the inventory app that originally used a local sqlite database would fit this. I continued to build off my previous two enhancements for this third one as well. I began by setting up the new database which is Firebase. Firebase is a cloud-based database that offers more features and integration within a project than I could do with sqlite. 

To utilize Firebase, I set up FirebaseAuth which is for authorization to control the login and registration of users in the app. I found that FirebaseAuth can provide a default login and registration user interface. I refactored my project to use the FirebaseAuth user interface which could now control the login and registration of users to the inventory app. In the Firebase console I could manage some different variables with FirebaseAuth like enabling certain login methods. The sign-in method I chose is email/password, which allows users to create their own email and password credentials. There are other sign-in methods available, but I just implemented one method rather than overcomplicate it to allow other methods. Another feature is that I could set the password requirements so that Firebase could handle the validation of passwords when registering. The password requirements provide the security that is required for a user to register and login. 

The other feature of Firebase I used is Firestore Database. This database is a noSQL type database that holds data in a json collection. I refactored the user and item models in my project code to be able to use Firestore database. For the users collection I needed to save data for lastLoginTime, role, userEmail, and userId. The lastLoginTime is used when the user is trying to login. The role allows different features to be available, as I set roles for admin, user, and read-only. The userEmail and userId just hold the user information. 

The user collection was useful to implement role-based features. I implemented a read-only role which removed add item, edit item, and delete item options. Read-only users can only view the inventory on the inventory screen. I allow the user role to add and edit items, but they cannot delete items. The admin role is able to add, edit, and delete items. I also made a new feature for admins to view user management which allows them to change user roles for other users. Lastly, for visualization of the user logged in and their role, I added the user email and role into the appbar popup menu so users could see that they are logged in and what role they have.

I also set up the item collection which just holds the itemName and itemQuantity values. The item inventory screen still could utilize the list of items when getting the data from the firestore collection. There was only some minor refactoring of the code to get the data and display it.

This last enhancement completes outcomes two, four, and five. For outcome two I have well documented code so that anyone reviewing it understands what is being done. Outcome four I demonstrate the use of Firebase in my app with both using FirebaseAuth for registration and login management and using Firestore to hold user and item collections. FirebaseAuth also provides the security necessary to handle password hashing and input validation for login and registration keeping security in mind. Security is important for everything we do as software developers and is part of what builds a strong reputation for professional development as employers are looking for security driven individuals to protect their data.

Link to GitHub repository - [EnhancementThreeRepository](https://github.com/Packers13195/CS360-Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming)

# Conclusion

Even though this may be the end and completion of the degree program, this is not the end of my educational journey. Through the program we have learned about the field of computer science and how much and fast it changes around us. This is an important lesson that I understand and hope I continue to learn and grow as I join the industry. I reflect back on all I have learned over the last three years, and I am proud to say I learned a lot and look forward to using my skills. But I will not take graduating as the end of my journey because this is not the end, this is just the beginning. I will continue to hone my skills and learn new ones, so please check back on my portfolio and follow my journey.
