{% include navigationmenu.html %}

# Self Reflection
Over the journey of this degree program, I was exposed to many different concepts and skills in computer science. This expanded my knowledge and skills from my previous education and professional experience. I was introduced to agile methodologies and design concepts that are important to understand the work done by software developer outside of coding. Classes like CS319 UI UX Design and Development where I focused on the planning and development of the UI/UX of a mobile app where I used wireframes to outline the design and asked potential users to use the wireframes as they would use it like the actual app. This helped find potential issues and further requirements of stakeholders. Another class was the Software Development Lifecycles course where I learned about those different agile methodologies and how project teams work in different environments and processes like DevSecOps. I also was exposed to security concepts and understanding of code by reverse engineering from computer instructions back to regular code. Learning different coding uses with different coding languages like python for data analytics and building a REST API and using C++ to code different console programs and develop digital graphics and then using Java to build for different security vulnerabilities and unit testing were all such great experiences and learning opportunities. Each course ended with adding the project to GitHub where I could showcase the work I did. This also could lead to collaboration with people on different projects as well. There were also several discussions where classmates discussed different topics, and even issues they were having with assignments or projects.

These courses provided a solid foundation to enter into this capstone course where I could develop a strong plan for the three enhancements to fulfill the different course areas and course outcomes. I wanted to build off my experience with designing and developing mobile applications with each enhancement which is why I chose to enhance my mobile app artifact from the Mobile Architect & Programming course. I knew about the Flutter framework and Firebase but had never used it and always developed my previous mobile app projects in Java in the android studio ide environment. Throughout this course, as I worked on each enhancement I learned about the use of Git and GitHub as version control for my project and how useful it can be for looking back at previous code and providing a work point so others could potentially join me in collaborating on the project. Using Flutter was more about understanding its structure and how it produces a cross-platform app rather than learning the Dart programming language. The Dart programming language has many similarities to Java and C++ for syntax which made it easy to read documentation and produce the code. Developing the plan and producing the code review video was challenging but shows off my organizational and written skills to produce content the outlines a clear path to completing the outcomes. Continuing to build off of the first enhancement into the second enhancement was a way of continuing to learn Flutter and create continuity between the enhancements. I wanted to deliver useful features with the algorithm and data structure enhancement, so I focused on adding the abilities to search, sort, and filter the data. I was able to use a list data structure which could be search through, sorted, and filtered quickly with the sort method from the Dart library, and queries to the database that return a list of items or the searched item. Using the foundation built from the previous enhancements, I was able to continue building the project for the third enhancement. The original artifact and the previous two enhancements were developed with a local SQLite database to hold the items, but for this third enhancement I wanted to utilize a cloud-based database called Firebase. I was originally planning to use Firebase as the NoSQL database to hold the items and users’ data like the SQLite database had, but I implemented a few additional features using Firebase. These features included implementing Firebase Authentication which allowed me to think about security and implement a singular login method and have firebase manage it. This also led me to implement a simple user role where I could assign new users to have a read-only, user, or admin role. The roles would limit their abilities within the app to add, edit, and delete items. This also adds additional security to the app. Using Firebase NoSQL database allowed me to show off my database knowledge and experience with NoSQL which I have learned previously about in some other courses like the Full Stack Development course and Client Server Development which both used MongoDB. Firebase is a way to continue to show off my mobile app development knowledge and skills as it is a industry standard for most mobile apps. I am excited to show off my skills with these enhancements that I completed and look forward to continuing to learn more about each technology as I continue to develop this app and some other app ideas I have.

